#summary Version history for SharpGL
#labels ReleaseInformation

= Introduction =

Version update information


= Updates =

== Version 1.84 - Released on January 12th 2009 ==
  * Added Example 6 - though it seems to have a serious problem.
  * Added Example 7 - Particle Systems.
  * Cleaned up the Resize code.

== Verison 1.83 - Released on January 11th 2009 ==
  * Fixed a bug in OpenGL.ReadPixels - thanks khdani.
  * Wrapped and documented EVERY remaining GL/GLU function.

== Version 1.82 - Released on January 8th 2009 ==
  * Fixed a minor bug with materials, thanks Stefan Müller.
  * Sped up rendering and removed flickering, thanks Steve Noyes.
  * Fixed GDI flickering, thanks Bastian Raschegewski.

== Version 1.81 ==
  * Added the GPL license details.
  * Fixed the aspect ratio issue.

== Version 1.8 ==
  * Added the Builder interface.
  * SceneBuilder : Revamped Seletion. You can now apply selection masks, select certain types only, modify the selection etc.
  * SceneBuilder : Updated the material editor- you can load textures.
  * SceneBuilder : Updated the rollup controls project, you can now drag rollups, and float them as windows.
  * SharpGL : Updated texture code. A texture object can now be returned as a bitmap correctly.

== Version 1.7 ==
  * Added the statistics page.
  * More quadrics to add to the scene.
  * Nurbs now work at an appreciable speed, thanks to my display list code.
  * BUG FIX : Fixed a little bastard of a bug in the polygon drawing code that was messing with the attributes of everything drawn after it.
  * Updated the SceneObject class to automatically optimise all drawing code with display lists. This has made drawing much fast but leaves coders with an added responsibity- if you draw using DoPreDraw you MUST set the 'modified' variable whenever you change something affects how it's the object is drawn.
  * Added the 'Narrow' tool. Every time you select anything, all of the selected objects are added to the narrow combo box. If you just want to be using one of them, select anything in the combo and it will narrow it for you.
  * Updated the polygon editing, vertices can now be dragged around as before.
  * Added the Simple3D persistence format. The Simple3D format is for files like '*.poly' files, which contain objects of the C++ Polygon class. This is the file format I use in other projects, which means SharpGL can edit these files now, which is very useful, as I can make a model in SharpGL and export it as a *.poly file.
  * Added the line and points classes, and the points builder.

== SharpGL Version 1.6 ==
  * Texture objects have a little preview in the properties window.
  * GDI drawing in the OpenGL control can be disabled (and is by default) to optimise performance.
  * OpenGL now uses a DIB surface to draw to.
  * BUG FIX: Sorted out the AmbiguitySelectionForm.
  * Added the optimised polygon class, which you create from an ordinary polygon. It's about twice as fast. However, it's much harder to edit.

== SharpGL Version 1.5 ==
  * Fixed shadows, they only work on properly made objects.
  * Added NURBS. They are categorised as evaluators.
  * Updated material code, you can now import materials from any image file, or use the new material builder. You can set an objects material by dragging the material onto it from the scene tree.
  * GDI drawing has been seamlessly mixed with OpenGL drawing. At any stage of the drawing cycle you can do GDI drawing!
  * PARTCILE SYSTEM BUILDER
    * Added the particle system builder, shows a dynamic display of the current system being made.
  * BUG FIX: Sorted out attribute code.
  * Updated the particle systems code.
  * Added serialization to SceneObject.
  * Added the StockDrawing property to OpenGL. This allows you to use a host of new objects for drawing, which I designed for things like lights. They are all display lists, and are optimised.
  * Added the 'TransformOrder' property to SceneObject, therefore nearly all objects. This allows different orders of matrix transformations, useful for 'panning', when you want to rotate BEFORE you translate.
  * Updated materials, significantly updated the code, much faster now.
  * Evaluators are back in action.
  * Cameras are back in action!
  * Commented out most of the scene code, got back to basics.
  * Seperated all OpenGL functions into their own class, OpenGL. Began the long process of making GL into Scene.

== SharpGL Version 1.01 ==
  * Cleaned up Index code (added properties for the protected members).
  * Face editing is now possible.
  * Today I finally got rid of the last of the ArrayLists in the GL class, and replaced them ALL with their own, type safe collections. This makes the code much more secure readable and adaptable. You can now edit any collection whithin the properties window.
  * Added the OpenGLCtrlDesigner class. The benefits of this are that meaningless properties (fore color etc) are removed from the properties window, reducing clutter.

== SharpGL Version 1.00 ==
  * Added the material collection.
  * Added the custom collection, all collections are now strongly typed, which makes the code faster, safer and easier to read.
  * Removed the DataNode source file, it's not needed.
  * I'm gonna start logging updates now, I make so many that I forget to write about on the site.